---
title: "The Genius behind Gnomo Palomo"
description: "Why this imaginary gnome figure is the most brilliant piece of art that I've ever seen."
date: 2026-06-02
pinned: false
image: "gnomo-palomo"
image_caption: "Gnomo Palomo's main profile picture."
---

I'm not sure how I found Gnomo Palomo. I must've been scrolling on Instagram one day when that magical little gnome showed up on my feed. What I can recall is that it was *love at first site.* It was so significant that I shared it with my close friends and co-founding team, which is not a common occurrence for matters that pique my curiosity (meaning I filter heaviliy before sharing matters that interest me). Looking at past messages, the earliest occurrence of this idea was around late October of 2025, so that means I've kept up with Gnomo Palomo and have been thinking about him (may be the wrong pronouns, but I'm going to roll with it) for at least 7 months... Enough glaze. Since I now have the delightful opportunity to write about whatever I want, I figured I'd write a piece on **Gnomo Palomo.**

## Who is Gnomo Palomo?

Great question. He's a gnome that wears a red cap and records vlogs about his adventures. He speaks Spanish in the calming voice of an older gentleman, curses often, and will tend to make a few inappropriate jokes. He lives in a different universe that contains references to various games, movies, and shows. All of this lends the content to being perfect for young men that understand the references (which I would say fall under Western culture). Understanding the language isn't even a requirement, contrary to most other content that's out there. Not having a complete understanding of what's being said adds to the absurdity, which in turn adds to the comedic effect. That's about the best that I could do in terms of describing Gnomo Palomo, but there's so much that my words fail to capture. I heavily advise checking out some of the content before continuing on with the reading: https://www.instagram.com/gnomopalomo/


## What makes Gnomo Palomo so brilliant?

Since I didn't want to just write about how I think Gnomo Palomo is great (which I may have overdone...), I decided to think a bit deeper about my intuitions and figure out what exactly it is that Gnomo Palomo does that makes me appreciate it (besides me being entertained as someone that falls under the ideal audience). What a blessing it is to label scrolling on Instagram as "research."

The first question that might come to a critical thinker's mind is: *how is this not slop?* All the content is AI-generated. Both image generations and video generations. It doesn't take an expert's eye to see that. The failed pattern recognition that activates the curios mind is that most AI-generated content is sloppy. But Gnomo Palomo doesn't feel sloppy. I think there are two reasons for this.

The obvious explanation is that the style **AND** purpose of the content lends itself to the sloppy "irregularities" of AI. What do I mean by that? Well, let's start with the **style**. The magical, fantastical world that Gnomo Palomo lives in doesn't follow the same rules of our reality. It doesn't matter if the lighting is off or if the characters don't follow the laws of physics. Perhaps more importantly, the style is more "action-packed" because of Gnomo's adventures. The clips are constantly cutting from one thing to another, so people don't bother to pay attention to the weird artifacts outside of the main view. I would say it's similar to how we overlook how Iron Man's suit does some pretty remarkable things under the handwaving description of "nanotechnology". No one cares to call it out because it's not unreasonable to claim that nanotechnology (and the laws of physics) functions differently in the Marvel universe.

Overlapping a bit with the style explanation, the **purpose** of the content is also very relevant. The purpose of the content anchors the user's expectations for how it should be judged. Gnomo Palomo is meant to entertain the audience, in which the audience doesn't necessarily expect a sense of realism. Contrary to this, if the content is meant to educate the audience, their expectations are going to be that the information is accurate and genuine, a perspective in which an attempt at realistic, AI-generated content can be viewed as deceptive. For example, check out this article on backlash against ads generated by AI [here.](https://digiday.com/marketing/with-ai-backlash-building-marketers-reconsider-their-approach/) I'll be honest, I don't think my point here about the purpose of the content being relevant will stand over time. It's likely just the case that people are much more lenient about how you make them laugh compared to how you emotionally connect with them, and also likely the case that the current sentiment around AI amplifies that difference.

The second explanation is simply that the content is well-crafted. Most of the AI-generated content that people have been exposed to (if any) tends to be a raw generation from someone they know or their own tests of the tools. In other words, there's rarely ever any editing or a larger (and cohesive) story behind the content. On the other hand, if you have some experience with these tools and video editing, you can tell that Gnomo Palomo is a carefully crafted composition and not just a raw sticthing of a few clips. If you just pay attention to the voice narration (which I can't confidently say is AI-generated), you can understand that lots of effort goes into the surface experience. Beyond this surface experience, the storyline is intentional with character- and state-consistency across episodes.

It should be kept in mind that the quality of AI-generated content has been rapidly improving over the past two years as billions of dollars is poured into R&D, and that Gnomo Palomo as maintained this "not slop" level of quality since the summer of 2025. The point here is that the quality can't be lazily attributed to the models being good, since they certainly weren't back then. It also goes to show that the approach of Gnomo Palomo will only scale in speed and quality as the models improve. It's all about the harness.

Now that the first question has been answered, we can ask a second question: *what makes this "non-slop" so great?* To this, I think the answer is clear. It's how Gnomo Palomo pulls in references that resonate with the target audience. It's the reference to the games that we've played, the shows nd movies that we've watched, and even the stereotypes or stereotypical situations that we joke about. By looping in these references, the value of the content is supported by the meaning behind all the references within it. Not only is the content engaging for all those who don't understand the references (after all, it is a fictitious gnome going on adventures), but it's engaging **AND** relateable for all those that who do understand. Not just that, but the constant references also signals the amount of effort that goes into this craft (if you understand them of course), which further props up the perceived value.


## Concluding Remarks

That was a heftier piece than I had anticipated. What's most remarkable about Gnomo Palomo is that he was likely created by someone else in their free time. Yes, it still takes skill to output something great, but the amount of impact that one skillful person can have has dramatically increased with AI tooling.

Until next time, ✌️.
