---
title: "I've got a problem."
description: "And I've come up with a solution too!"
date: 2026-06-06
pinned: false
image: ""
image_caption: ""
reading_time: ""
---

When I'm in Boston, I scoot around everywhere. From my house to campus, in between buildings on campus, and anywhere I need to be off-campus (within my scooter's battery range, of course). I love everything about it. The speed. The aura. But most importantly, the peace of mind that comes when I'm on my scooter. The journey requires my focus, and that immediately drops anything other concern to being a second priority. Even when I'm on the way to that which concerns me (say for example, an exam), my scooter ride clears my mental load. After all, avoiding injury and potentially death seems like a reasonable first priority to me.

I could write a whole piece on how much I love my scooter, but that's not the topic for today. What I wanted to do with that whole introduction was set up a contrast between scooting (and maybe cycling, but I can't really speak for bicycle riders) and other forms of transport, particularly driving and walking. When I'm walking, my mind is full of thoughts and tries to evaluate them. Unless I put in the effort to *not* think, I'm going to be thinking about whatever is pressing me or random thoughts that come from observing my environment. Same thing with driving. Thinknig about one of my projects, the podcast that I'm playing, or observing the environment (which tends to be watching how other people drive). It seems the mental state during the action ties directly to the effort or intensity of the action rather than the action itself. Think about going for a run or driving at high speeds. When I'm running or legally driving at high speeds, I "lock in", so to speak, and experience the same scooter effect. So, it seems to be that the scooter exceptionality comes from there not being a "chill" variant. My default is fast.

Anyways, disregard the elaborate tangent. What I want to focus on is the reality of how, when I'm driving or walking, I think a lot. I'm not special in that regard. Many people will often treat driving and walking as a means for thinking when they "go for a drive/walk," where the connotation is almost always that there's a heavy topic that needs to be thought through. With regard to walking, we know, scientifically, that there's benefits to thinking while walking. To the point that I would claim that walking lends itself to optimal thinking. Driving might share a few benefits from the motor-control activation, but it's probably not as effective as walking (it lacks the increased blood flow).

So, getting back to the main point again, when I'm walking/driving, I sometimes want a thinking partner to bounce my ideas off of. When there's other people in the car with or walking alongside me, I'll (sometimes) talk to them. And recently, I've found myself turning to AI (particularly Claude) as a partner to explore different ideas. I think more people are going down this route too. The benefits are that this other entity has context about you from previous conversations and also happens to know more than any other human on Earth. The dangers are that the other entity does all the thinking for you, and that the entity is treated as if it has no bias (which it will inevitably have, at least a little bit, like any other "thinking" entity).

The "problem" that this piece is based on is that, while walking or driving, it's awkward (and not safe) for me to engage with an AI thinking partner through the usual chat interface. So, I tried the voice variants of ChatGPT. Specifically, it was their speech-to-speech model through the ChatGPT app (the older variant since the newer one isn't available outside of the API). It sucked. I was better off thinking on my own. I'll admit that my criticism isn't wholly fair to their realtime model, especially since there's an upgraded version with reasoning capabilities that I haven't tested yet. The issue comes in with how the thinking partner experience isn't available under the existing interface.

So, the existing voice interactions are poor in quality, but I know I can do better. I can create voice agents that are tuned to the experience that I want, but I just need a interface to communicate with these voice agents on the go. Phone calls come to mind. But then, one has to contend with an 8 kHz sampling rate standard (referencing the degraded voice quality of phone calls), dealing with a programmable telephony provider (like Twilio), and paying said provider for every minute the call is active (on top of all the agent costs). I didn't want to deal with any of this, and I saw VoIP as a potential alternative. It's basically how Facetime connects anyone on the same call, over some internet connection rather than phone lines. Fortunately for me, it deals with all the problems of regular phone calls while maintaining the same interface (think Facetime audio).

That's the solution. An app that facilitates the VoIP connection to any custom voice agent, allowing users to call, or even receive calls from, their voice agents. It's that simple. My explanation of the problem was certainly unnecessarily long and convoluted, but it's a simple problem with a simple solution at the end of the day.

It's so simple that I still can't believe that no one has done it before. I searched all that I can, but to no avail. Now, the burden and opportunity rests on me. I might open-source the code (still not entirely sure), but I'll definitely be making the app completely free. I'm taking inspiration from "ntfy", an app that I've used to send notifications from my computer to my phone. Will share more soon...

Until next time, ✌️.
